Expert Knowledge Challenge Problem (EKCP) Scenario for the Kickoff Meeting
		(produced by SRI/ISI, and PSR)

We anticipate our EKCP knowledge base to contain at least three kinds
of knowledge.

(1) Domain-independent background knowledge
(2) Domain-specific knowledge entered by our team's SMEs
(3) Domain-specific knowledge entered by the test taking SMEs

The goal of the EKCP end-to-end  (E2E) system is to enable an analyst
to create and maintain a generic modeling capability.  This will involve
extending the  default BW process models that are in the system, and
specializing them to new situations.  It will also involve creating
and maintaining problem-solving methods for reasoning with those models.

We first give a description of (3), that is, a sample BW case report
to be entered into a KB by an SME.  Instead of presenting the full
case report, we include only snippets from it.  Then we describe (2) -
the knowledge that we expect to be already present in the system.
Finally, we consider brief examples of (1), that is, the
domain-independent knowledge needed for entering (3).

DOMAIN-SPECIFIC KNOWLEDGE TO BE ENTERED BY AN SME

BW CASE DESCRIPTION FOR IRAQ (adapted from IET/PSR's RKF proposal)
(Adapted from Raymond A.  Zilinska "Iraq's Biological Weapons: The
Past as Future" JAMA (Vol.  278, No.  5: 6 August 1997), pp.  418-424.)

Iraq's anthrax program began in 1985 at the Muthanna State
Establishment, but moved to Salman Pak in 1987.  Utilizing samples
from both the US and France along with local isolates, Iraqi
scientists produced and animal-tested the virulence of four strains of
anthrax.  The findings from this research led to mass production of
anthrax at the Al Hakam Single Cell Protein Production Plant in 1989.

Iraq's current anthrax production capabilities are unknown because the
government has made an effort to conceal its BW activities.  The United
Nations Commission (UNSCOM) that carried out inspection activities in Iraq
has determined that Iraq was capable of maufacturing some dual-use
equipment that could be used for agent production.  If this includes
fermenters, for example, then Iraq might have the capability to produce wet
anthrax.  Also, given the very nature of dual-use equipment, Iraq may not
have too much difficulty in replacing equipment destroyed or removed during
the war.  The key ingredient in their BW program - the trained personnel -
are still largely in place.

Since the Iraqi defeat in the 1991 Persian Gulf War, however, the
international community has tried to ensure that all vestiges of the
Iraqi BW program are eliminated. Iraq retained 200 scientists that
worked within its BW probram and rebuilt some of the research
facilities bombed during the 1991 Persian Gulf War.

-----End of Case Report----------

SAMPLE QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS BASED ON THE REPORT

Question: If Iraq acquired expertise on dry anthrax production, how
might this affect a future Iraqi anthrax weaponization program?

Answer: Iraq had the equipment to produce anthrax before 1991.  Since
dry anthrax is a much more potent weaponization of the agent, it is
likely that Iraq would try to pursue this route as opposed to the wet
anthrax weaponization.

-------

DOMAIN-SPECIFIC KNOWLEDGE BUILT BY TEAM'S SMEs prior to evaluation

We expect our team's SMEs to build at least the following
domain-specific knowledge in the system.

- An ontology of BW related terms representing terms such as:
transnational actors, produce agent, prepare wet agent etc. A more
extensive listing of such an ontology is attached in the file
ekcp-kickoff-supporting-material.


- A Model of BW proliferation

Developing a BW agent has the following steps:
o Acquire Seed stock
o Acquire production material
o Establish production facilities
o Acquire equipment
o Establish worker safety
o Produce BW agent

For each activity, the model will specify the necessary materials,
personnel, resources, etc.  as well as duration, necessary previous
activities or conditions, etc.  A graphical representation of such a
model is attached in the file ekcp-kickoff-supporting-material.

Domain-specific knowledge about Anthrax production and delivery

(Note: we could envision a test taker SME entering the knowledge such
as the one shown here.  For the kickoff meeting, we will assume the
knowledge about anthrax production is entered by our team's SME.)

Wet anthrax takes the form of a liquid slurry.  Dry anthrax is a
non-liquid, powder-like substance.  The production methods used to
develop wet and dry anthrax share some common elements, but differ in
several key final process steps.  Fermentation is used to grow the
anthrax spores, regardless of the wet or dry end state.  Following
fermenation, however, dry agents then go through several process steps
- including milling and drying (e.g., spray dry, vacuum drum dry, or
azeotropic distillation) - that the wet agent does not.  Once
produced, dry agents have far less stringent storage requirements than
wet agent, which require environmentally-controlled storage.  Also,
dry agent can be dispensed more easily than wet agent, which requires
sophisticated aerosol dispersion mechanisms to acheive the most
effective spore size.

(Note: The knowledge in the previous paragraph is an interesting exercise
for core theory development. For example, we will need core theory suppport
to model production, delivery, and liquid/dry/powdered objects.)

Anthrax in dry form, is far more difficult to produce - in terms of
product stabilization and quality (i.e., spore size), and in terms of
worker safety.  On the other hand, dry agents are very easy to
dispense and are hardier in the environment - hence their battlefield
utility.  Liquid agent dispensers require very precise aerosol
mechanisms to yield the desired particle size without too much product
destruction in the process.  The principal tradeoff between production
difficulty and delivery difficulty is one which occurs with many BW
agents.  This takes us then to the particular actor involved, and what
they're expected objective and delivery mode is likely to be.  An
Iraqi program designed to produce an agent for battlefield employment,
with the resources of a state actor, is more likely to pursue the dry
agent form.  A terrorist actor, with more limited resources and
different employment objectives, might instead pursue the more simple
production avenue of the liquid agent, even sacrificing dispensing
efficiency.

(Note: The knowledge in the previous paragraph may be best represented as
a problem solving method.  Here is an example sketch of a PSM to capture
this knowledge.

If objective = Maximum Damage
   Explore X=dry anthrax
   If dont use dry anthrax
      Explore X=wet anthrax

If objective = Cause scare
   Explore X= wet anthrax


Explore X
 Can produce X
   Can deliver X
       Use X
   Cannnot deliver X
       Dont use X
 Cannot produce X
    Dont use X)


DOMAIN-INDEPENDENT KNOWLEDGE

An agent can perform a production process if it can meet all the preconditions
necessary to enable that process.

Distinction between dry and wet objects

Dual-use equipment can be acquired and/or repaired more easily than
military equipment.

Fermenters are a dual use equipment.

Spores can be grown through a fermentation process.

;;------------------------------------------
REASONING

objective-of <agent:Iraq> for producing anthrax
  --> Maximum Damage( battlefield utility)
  --> then look for something easy to dispense and hardier in the environment
  --> dry anthrax
      dry anthrax production needs more expertise
     (far more difficult to produce - in terms of
      product stabilization and quality (i.e., spore size), and in terms of
      worker safety)
  --> Iraq *might* have the capability to produce wet anthrax.
        --> Iraq was capable of maufacturing some dual-use
	equipment that could be used for agent production

objective-of <agent:Iraq> for producing anthrax
  --> terror with limited resources
  --> then find simple production --> wet anthrax